I think most of y'all are very familiar with our last keynote speaker.
He's one of the trailblazers of the world of data science and open source software.
As the founder of RStudio and the creator of RStudio IDE,
he has had a profound impact on data analysis and software development.
His work extends to the development of R Markdown, Shiny packages,
and, my favorite, bridging the gap between R, Python, and TensorFlow.
So, today he's here to share his insights on the exciting Quarto project
that is a Jupyter-based scientific and technical publishing system
that's set to transform how we share knowledge.
So, without any further ado, with a warm round of applause,
please welcome our last keynote speaker of PyData NYC 2023, J.J. Allaire.
Thank you very much. It's really, really exciting to be here.
And I'm here to tell you today about something new, actually.
Something to tell you about today, we're announcing today.
So, that's kind of always fun to do, too, at a conference.
And by way of a little bit of introduction, actually, most of this has been taken care of.
I'm the founder and CEO of Posit, which you probably have never heard of.
But you have likely heard of RStudio, which is kind of, we renamed RStudio Posit last summer.
And the reason we did that is that we wanted to take the things,
we had a lot of success working in the R ecosystem,
but we wanted to do a lot of the things we had done in R,
do them much more broadly, to do work that affected all data scientists and all scientists.
And so we wanted to become a multi-language data science tools company.
And we are early in that journey.
I'm going to share with you today a bunch of the work that we've done in the Jupyter and Python ecosystem,
but we're going to be doing a lot more of it in the future.
And I'll talk a little bit about that today.
I'm going to give you a brief orientation to what Quarto is,
because you likely haven't seen or heard of Quarto either.
Then I'm going to spend the larger part of the talk telling you about Quarto dashboards,
and then just a little bit of a footnote about kind of our nature of Posit as a company,
and how we're approaching Python.
So let's start with learning a little bit about what Quarto is.
And Quarto is an open source technical publishing system.
You can think of it as sort of taking Jupyter notebooks, converting them to Markdown,
and then processing that Markdown into lots and lots and lots of different types of output formats and artifacts.
Obviously, there are tools that do this, like nbconvert already,
but Quarto sort of takes that to a whole other level.
It supports not just the kind of conventional output formats,
like Word documents and PDFs and web pages and PowerPoint presentations and things like that,
but also specialized project types that let you build entire websites for books or blogs,
all from computations in Jupyter.
So the real big idea behind Quarto is to sort of take the work that you do in Jupyter and in notebooks,
and then reproducibly transform it into various types of production output.
So again, Jupyter is where the computations happen.
Markdown is based on another open source project called Pandoc,
which is a very, very powerful kind of scientific markdown, academic and scientific markdown,
and supports lots of advanced features like citations and cross-references and things like that.
And again, turn it into lots of different types of output.
So just some really simple examples to give you the basic idea.
The first example I'm going to show you will be nothing novel or noteworthy.
There's a notebook here, and we're going to turn that into a web page.
There's no options. It's all just default behavior.
So I say Quarto, turn this into a web page, and it makes a web page that looks largely like the notebook.
But Quarto has a huge number of options for how things are transformed from notebooks into various output formats.
And for some formats like HTML and PDF, it has over 100 different options.
So there's lots of ways to tailor things.
So as a simple example of that, I'm going to change the theme and the highlight style,
and I'm going to add an ability for users to make comments using hypothesis.
So I've added those options at the top of the notebook.
And then when I render it, you can see the theme and highlighting are indeed different.
And then over here on the right, you can see this commenting bar.
So that's just an example. Again, there's lots and lots of things you can do with options.
Another example of this is we have some options that let you show and hide code.
So we're saying fold the code, don't show it by default, but provide the user tools to be able to show the code if they want.
So those are document-level options.
And then we have cell-level options, which are done with this hashpipe special comment.
Here we're saying we want to make this a cross-referencable figure.
So when I render this, you can see it looks a little different.
Now the code is hidden. You can see the cross-reference here.
And then there's a code menu in the top right.
And so then when I click on that, I have a way to toggle the code.
So this is just by way of example. There's lots of other things you can do.
I just want to get you the basic mental model of I have a notebook.
I add options to it. I specify different formats.
I add options to the cells, and that tailors the type of production output that I can get.
So here's another example of making a PDF.
In this case, we're going to say we want citations to go in the margin.
We're also going to say with PDFs, the ideal reading width does not usually use the full width of the page.
We're going to have a column that's a little bit narrower, but that means we have space in the margin we can use.
Putting the citations in the margin is a good thing to do.
But also I've got two side-by-side figures, and I want those to use up more space.
So you can see in this PDF, I've got the citation here,
and I've kind of flowed over the margin with the side-by-side figures.
So again, that's just an example of rendering a PDF.
And there's similar sorts of options for lots of other formats.
And then finally, this is kind of the final basic Kordo 101 example,
is making a slide deck with a notebook.
Here you can see I've specified a different format, Reveal.js,
and I've read a couple options, a logo, and a slide numbering treatment.
This presentation I'm doing now is actually done with Kordo and Reveal.js.
There's a lot of very fancy things you can do with your presentations.
Here I'll just show a simple example of a slide that has a couple of side-by-side plots on it.
And you can see the logo is here, and the numbering is here.
So those are just simple examples to give you the mental model of taking notebooks
and then using options to customize their output,
rendering them out to lots of different formats.
So again, briefly, just to understand all the mechanics, what's the basic workflow.
In Kordo, it's a command-line tool, and when you have a notebook,
you say, render the notebook, and by default it'll just render to whatever format
that notebook declares as its native format.
But you can also vary that and say, well, I actually want to render to a different format.
I'll talk about this in a minute, but we actually have another variety of notebook,
which is a plain text notebook.
And some users prefer to work with their notebook in a regular text editor,
have it be readily difficult in version control.
So you have a plain text version of notebooks.
It's still using Jupyter, it still sells, it's all the same backend, but it's plain text.
And so you can equally render the plain text versions of documents here.
This has a QMD file extension for Kordo Markdown.
So that's how you render, and then there's a live preview server.
So if you were going to work iteratively on a notebook or a QMD,
and you want to have it update every time you save, you can say Kordo Preview.
Here's Jupyter, you can see I'm running Kordo Preview down here in a terminal.
And every time I save a notebook, then the output will update in turn.
And I just want to briefly show you this plain text notebook idea.
Again, some people like this because it works with any text editor.
There's deterministic run order of cells, integrates with version control.
I think there's different use cases for traditional notebooks versus plain text.
Kordo supports both of them.
Just to walk you through this a little bit, this is kind of the Markdown cell at the top
that provides all the options.
This is literally a code cell, the same thing as a code cell inside a Jupyter notebook.
You can see there it's got a cell option on it.
This is a Markdown cell, and this is another code cell.
Just really the same thing as what we saw in the notebook, but just expressed in plain text.
And then kind of the way rendering works.
It's kind of the way you'd expect.
If you're rendering a Jupyter notebook, we're not going to re-execute the notebook.
We assume that you have executed all the cells in the way you want, in the order that you want,
to the specifications you want.
And then when we render, we're just going to take the Jupyter notebook, turn it into Markdown,
feed it through, and create output.
Whereas if you're using the plain text workflow, we're actually going to turn that QMB into a Jupyter notebook
and actually execute all the cells, and then render the final output.
You can choose to, if you want, when you're using a regular notebook,
you can have it re-executed every time, if you want, but by default it does not execute.
And there's various ways to do caching of outputs, so that if, you know, you can use Jupyter Cache,
so that if you're just working on content and you're not updating your computations,
that you don't pay for re-running all the cells all the time.
Okay, so that's the basics of Porto, just how it works, what it is.
But what I'm really here to talk about today is a new output format
that we're actually announcing today, called Porto Dashboards.
And the idea here is to easily create dashboards from Jupyter notebooks.
And these dashboards could be static, sort of produced one time, produced on a schedule,
or they could be interactive and have like a back-end server behind them.
I'll show you both of those variations.
So, just to give you some examples, these are just some dashboards that we created with Porto.
Dashboards are generally split into rows and columns.
You can kind of divide up your rows and columns however you want.
Here you can see there's pages, so you can have multiple pages in a dashboard.
These are value boxes, which are things for sort of good, you know, top-level values.
I'll show you five or six examples just to give you a flavor of the sort of dashboards you might create,
and then I'll get more into the mechanics of how you actually create them.
So that's one.
Here's another one that similarly looks a little different, similarly has multiple pages,
and has also value boxes, and this one has a tab set.
So the author of this dashboard really wants to focus your attention on this visualization,
and then if you want to drill into more detail, you have a chance to use the tabs to do that.
Here's another dashboard that's similar.
It has value boxes and pages.
This one has a sidebar, which is often used like for inputs in an interactive dashboard,
or it could be used for sort of explanatory or peripheral data that the user might want to optionally hide.
Here's another pretty simple dashboard.
This one doesn't have multiple pages.
Here's an example of a dashboard you might want to rerun on a scheduled basis.
So you probably want to update this dashboard like once an hour.
You know, and I think if you think about sort of deploying things,
if you have a dashboard like this and you have maybe like hundreds or thousands of people who might be hitting it,
you really don't want to rerun all this Python code every single time someone hits the dashboard.
What you want to do is say, well, the data's not going to change, but once an hour or whatever, once a day or whatever it is,
so we'll just rerender it once on a schedule, and then people can just access static HTML.
Here's an example of a dashboard that's built around a deployed model.
So it kind of starts off with the model card, and then it has some basic information on model performance,
drift, misclassified results.
So this is another use case.
And this also shows that it's pretty easy to have dashboards that incorporate a lot of narrative and content.
They're not just strictly just like, oh, look, here's like nine plots with no context.
It's very easy to bring in markdown and bring in links and rich explanations.
And then here is an example of an interactive dashboard.
This dashboard actually has a Python process running behind it.
And when you change these checkboxes or this distribution widget,
it's going to rerender the plots and update the filtered view of the data.
So this is different.
The other dashboards I just showed you don't have a Python process behind them.
This one does.
And I'll in a little bit get into how exactly that works and how we do that.
And finally, this is a really simple dashboard, probably a little bit simpler than the other ones.
This is using Plotly.
And so one of the things that this illustrates a little bit is that Plotly has a bunch of interactive features here.
It has this timeline.
Those interactive features are still available even in a static dashboard because everything is done on the client.
This dashboard essentially has two pages, indicators and data.
It has two rows.
And it splits the second row into two columns.
So I'm showing you this last because I'm going to walk you through exactly how we can take a notebook and turn it into this dashboard.
So take a look at this.
Remember what it looks like.
And I'll show you what the authoring looks like.
So here's our notebook.
And you can see that it has what's called the front matter here, the options.
And we've said we want to have a dashboard as our format.
That could be, on the other hand, DocX or Reveal.js.
Here's a dashboard.
And you remember we had an indicators page.
So in my notebook, I create a level one heading called indicators.
And that creates a page in the dashboard.
And then I, you recall, the first row was this big wide visualization.
So I create a row here.
And I put my visualization in it.
And now I need to create my second row that has the other two plots.
So if I scroll down in the notebook, I have another row.
And I have my other two plots.
So that's the notebook that's going to kind of feed this dashboard.
When I Porto render this or Porto preview this, I get the dashboard that we just saw.
And you can see that things are organized into rows and columns as specified by those headings.
If we look down to the next page, remember we had an indicators page and we had a data page.
If I keep scrolling down in the notebook, you can see I have data.
I have a markdown cell here that just has a link and a little logo.
And then I'm using itables package to make a table.
And then when that is rendered in the dashboard, you can see the data page is provided here.
And you get a version of the table that works well in the dashboard and get the markdown.
So that is the basic mechanic.
There's quite a bit of additional things you can do, which I'll show you.
But that's kind of the basic, the way things work.
You have notebooks that have cells that have output.
You have markdown cells.
You have headings that give you the structure.
So yeah, this is actually, you've kind of seen all of this.
You have a navigation bar and pages.
You have the things that perform layout, like tab sets, rows, columns, and sidebars.
And then you have the data.
And those are cards.
And typically you can think your mental model is like a cell in a Jupyter notebook maps to a card,
and it presents some data.
And that data can be of all different types.
It can kind of be anything that you can render from a Jupyter notebook.
As it turns out, plots and tables are really popular, value boxes also, and content.
But you can have anything, maps, any sort of thing.
Even just like the results of a summary of data or a statistical model or something like that.
And so I want to underscore that all of the components that I'm showing you here can be authored and customized
either within the notebook UI, which in kind of my big demo, initial demo, I showed you using a notebook.
Or you can also use the plain text QMD workflow.
I'm going to go through some of these in detail.
And in this, in sort of enumerating them, I'm going to use the plain text version.
It's a little easier for me to show you all of the structure.
It kind of fits more compactly.
But just know that everything I'm showing you in plain text can also be done in a notebook equally well.
So navigation bar, it's straightforward.
You can give it a title and an author.
You have pages in your dashboard, and those become pages on the navigation bar.
And then if you want to put some nav buttons to provide social links or even just arbitrary custom links,
those are easy to add as well.
Sidebars, we'll get into this.
They're kind of essential in more interactive applications.
And you can have sidebars.
So here, these are the headings.
And this is a Jupyter notebook cell, basically, in plain text.
So just whenever you see this in these demos, that's a Jupyter notebook cell.
So sidebars you can have inside a page.
So in this layout, you have a sidebar with a column next to it.
And that's just like a sidebar that sits inside a page.
But you can also have a global sidebar where the sidebar is available across all pages in the dashboard.
So if you want to do a global sidebar, you put the sidebar attribute on an H1.
And now that will be global to the whole dashboard.
And you can see we've got a plot page, a data page, and a global sidebar.
So as I switch pages, the sidebar will remain in place.
More useful for interactive dashboards, but also can be useful for static dashboards,
for stuff you want to let the user clear away optionally.
So layout, you couldn't see this that well in the notebook version,
but those row headers actually had a height attribute on them.
So when you define a row or a column, you can give it a height or a width,
which allows you to, in this case, focus the user's attention on the main chart.
That's the main thing I want you to be looking at.
And then say these charts are more tertiary or secondary.
So here you just use the height attribute to drive that.
Now going back to the initial set of examples we used, you can see how that's used here.
This has three rows, and each of which has three items, one, two, and one, just a single item in a row.
But this is a row-oriented layout for the dashboard.
So that's the default.
You can also switch the orientation to columns, and in some cases that's more desirable or useful.
And then with columns, you can set a width.
So here's an example of, like, you've got one chart, or whatever this is.
It could be just a data table or anything.
Here, it's taking 60%, and then my other charts are here.
I don't know if I showed this example before. I don't think I did.
This is a column-oriented dashboard layout, where I've actually put the value boxes here,
and I've got columns, one of which has a tab set inside it.
So it depends on how you're trying to present it, how dense the information is,
how much you want to focus on one versus many charts.
But rows and columns are very flexible, and they can nest arbitrarily inside themselves as tab sets.
So you can pretty much build any layout that you can imagine.
And specifically tab sets, you just say, this row, rather than have two side-by-side charts,
I would like this row to be organized as a tab set.
And now you can see here, instead of having two separate boxes for chart two and chart three,
it's just going to make tabs for them.
And in that case, you're not required to put titles on cells.
Normally, you can have them be untitled and just show the visualization.
But in this case, you want to put a title, so the tab set has a title.
So you do that by adding this title option comment.
And this is an example. Again, I think we saw this one earlier.
Here's the use of tab sets inside a dashboard, so that's pretty straightforward.
So talk a little bit about some of the specific data that you'll put in a dashboard.
Plotly has a lot of reasons why it's an excellent library for dashboards.
One reason is that dashboards, you have no idea what the size of the browser is going to be,
including it could be a mobile browser.
And you really want the plots to size themselves intelligently to the space that they're painted in.
Plotly does a very, very good job at that.
So whatever space it is in, it will automatically be laid out.
I think Bokeh does a pretty good job at this, too.
So that's one advantage of Plotly, is that you get this dynamic sizing behavior.
And the other nice thing, I guess this also applies to Bokeh,
is that Plotly can give you interactive features, even though you don't have a backend.
You can also use other Jupyter widgets, any Jupyter widget.
So in this case, I'll show you my PyLeaflet.
Here you can see that this is going to look better if I can full bleed to the edges of the card,
and I have padding around it, so I set the padding option to zero.
And you can use regular static, like matplotlib, seaborn graphics.
When you do that, you have to pay a little more attention to the size.
Like, okay, this plot's going to be a little wider than tall,
so maybe I want to actually emit it that way.
They'll get sized automatically, but it's not as fluid as the JavaScript-based plotting library.
So there's pros and cons.
One of the negatives of JavaScript-based libraries is they embed all the data in the webpage,
so if you have a lot of data, you really kind of have no choice but to use a regular static plotting library.
For tables, you can use the tabulate package to create a markdown table
from many, many types of Python.
Data frame, matrix, many data structures are supported by tabulate,
and that just creates a markdown table.
You can also use the itables package, which gives you a sortable, filterable view of data.
So both are supported.
Value boxes we showed a little bit.
The value box, we basically, right now, we'll actually eventually have a package
that you can just call functions to make the value boxes for now.
It's a little bit of a workaround.
We just print a dict with the value box attributes from the cell,
and you'll see what it looks like here.
But I wanted to focus you in on the fact that these values can be dynamic,
so in this case, depending on the value, the icon would change or the color would change.
So in this case, we're saying the price is up, so we're going to put an up arrow and green,
but you can imagine if it was otherwise, you'd use a different color.
So that's a dimension of value boxes that are also dynamic.
And then, I think very importantly, you can include arbitrary text content in dashboards.
Here, you can see I basically just put a...
This is the plain text version of just a markdown cell.
So in a notebook, I would just make a markdown cell, and it would work just this way.
In plain text, you delineate the content with this carved div,
and then it just goes in alongside your plot.
So it's very easy to add narrative and analysis and things like that
in alongside visualizations and tables.
And the last piece of dashboard components is all cards have this expand icon by default.
So some of these visualizations can get kind of small,
so when the user hovers their mouse over the card, they can expand it.
In this case, it goes full screen, and they can see a more zoomed-in view of the plot.
You can turn that off if you want, but it's on by default.
Okay, so that's kind of like whirlwind grand tour of all the different ways you can...
Components of dashboards, how you present data, how it kind of maps to markdown headers and notebook cells.
But I want to talk a little bit about different ways to deploy dashboards.
Most of what I've shown you right now so far are just static HTML pages.
So they actually can be deployed to any web server or web host.
They don't require a Python processor or server, so they're very lightweight, very scalable.
So that's the basic kind of...
Static dashboard, if you can imagine, like, the underlying data won't ever change.
If I have a dashboard about, like, the 2016 election, the data's not going to change.
I don't need to keep re-rendering it.
It's just the election, or whatever.
Or, you know, the Q1, whatever.
There's some things that's historical data that's not going to change.
A single static rendering of it can be fine.
But then, obviously, you want to, in some cases, have scheduled dashboards.
So, you know, use a cron job or any other kind of job manager to basically say,
I want to re-render my dashboard every day or every hour or whatever's appropriate.
You can also have parameterized dashboards.
And I'll show an example of that in just a minute.
So you can say, well, you know, the dashboard will...
Depending on the parameters, it might target a certain region,
or it might target a certain assumption.
And in that case, I want to have a different version of the dashboard.
So you can declare parameters in dashboards,
and then have those create variants of the dashboard.
And that works well with both static and scheduled dashboards.
And then finally, you can have an interactive dashboard that has a server backend
that uses Shiny, which is another open source project from Puzzit.
And I'll describe how to do that.
But when you do that, it requires a server for deployment.
So I want to speak briefly about the idea of a parameterized dashboard.
We use the same kind of technique that Paper Mill uses to declare parameters.
So in Paper Mill, you basically add a tag to a cell called parameters.
And then you declare a bunch of variables in there.
And then once you've done that, when you render,
you can give it this parameter.
You can have it as many as you want.
And it'll vary the dashboard based on the parameters.
So in this case, this is a dashboard for a single stock,
but you might want to render it for different stocks,
and that parameter allows you to do it.
So that's parameterized dashboards.
Interactive dashboards are a whole different thing,
but they're a really pretty natural extension of all the stuff I've shown you
with static dashboards.
Again, these build on Shiny package,
which is another Python open source project by both Python
and our open source project from Puzzit.
Shiny is kind of its own thing.
It's got its own whole application framework and way of doing things.
In this case, we're just going to embed Shiny components
inside a Cordo dashboard.
This is a super simple Shiny dashboard.
Hello, Shiny.
You can see on the right, it's just a single plot,
and it's got three inputs.
I'll walk you through what the code looks like for this.
You can see we're still using markdown headings,
the kind of dashboard syntax that we talked about,
but we've added this server Shiny to indicate that this dashboard
should have a backend.
First, I'm going to call a bunch of functions
from the Shiny package to define three inputs,
and those map here to variable distribution
and whether to show run marks.
And those are just functions that say,
here's the variable, I'm declaring it,
here's the label I want to have for it,
and here's the choices to offer.
I'll put those in the sidebar.
And then over here, we define a function that creates a plot.
This uses a Python decorator.
You'll see in Shiny there's a bunch of decorators,
render decorators, and what's noteworthy about here
is you'll see that nowhere in this file
do we actually call this function.
Using the decorator basically instructs Shiny,
please call this function whenever any of the inputs
that are referenced by it change.
Shiny will automatically call this function when it needs to.
And you can see in this line here,
we're actually referencing those inputs defined above.
So whenever you see these render decorators,
you're just saying, set this up to be called
whenever things that it depends on change.
So that's a super simple little Shiny.
You can do quite a bit more sophisticated Shiny dashboards.
This one steps up a little bit.
It's still pretty simple.
It's got a couple pages.
It's got more inputs.
But all the stuff I showed you with value boxes and tab sets
and rows and columns and tables,
you can all do that interactively with Shiny components as well.
In terms of deploying these things,
there are quite a few different ways to do that.
And they're basically standard ASCGI Python apps.
So you don't need anything special, per se, to deploy them.
You can just call Shiny run.
As long as your server environment supports WebSockets and StickySessions,
then you can serve it.
That said, there are some easier ways to deploy
that take care of some of the networking and scaling and things like that.
So there's a couple cloud services that support Shiny deployment.
ShinyAppsIO, that's one that Posit has created,
and then HuggingFace also supports Shiny apps.
And then if you're running your own server,
we have an open source server that lets you deploy Shiny apps.
We also have a commercial product that lets you deploy Shiny apps.
And then, of course, as I said, you can completely roll your own.
You don't need to use any of these products.
They just kind of make some things easier.
So I did earlier say that whenever you use Shiny components,
you're going to need a server.
That's not entirely true.
We actually have a way to deploy these dashboards that use Shiny
completely serverless using Kydive.
So we actually have an example up on our site to show you.
You can use Python, use Matplotlib and Pandas and everything,
and actually have it all run inside the web browser.
And then there's no server in that case.
And so this retirement simulation example we have
shows you how to do that, and this is the app.
It's just pretty simple.
It's just got two scenarios, and you can change them,
and it reruns the simulation.
But this is all running inside the browser.
So there is a serverless option that you have.
All right, so that is now kind of completed,
telling you all about dashboards.
I wanted to conclude by giving you a little bit of insight
into Posit, the company, what our philosophy is,
and kind of the work we've done so far in the Python space.
So we were founded 14 years ago as RStudio,
and our mission was then, and now, and will be,
to create open source software for data science.
We're actually organized as a public benefit corporation,
which means a bunch of things,
but mostly it means that our mission is encoded
into our corporate charter.
Our officers and directors actually have a fiduciary duty
to pursue this mission, and that when we make decisions,
that traditional corporations, like a normal C corporation,
really needs to narrowly consider the interests
of the shareholders as kind of the only thing
that really ultimately matters,
and public benefit corporations can be much more diverse.
They have their mission, they have the community,
they have their employees, they have the shareholders,
they sort of look at all the stakeholders.
So that's our approach, kind of at a corporate level,
and we've actually gone to pretty significant lengths
to try to make sure that never changes.
So we are an independent company,
and we are committed to not ever selling the company
and not going public, so we are always going to be
an independent and private company.
To that end, we have control of the company entirely inside,
so outside investors do not have a way
to force us to do anything.
All of the main control is within people inside the company.
I think that allows us to have an imperative
that isn't growth at all costs,
which is, I think, the imperative of most startup companies,
even most big public companies,
but try to build something that's sustainable
and building open source software
and providing a trustworthy foundation
for users of open source software for a long, long time.
A hundred years might be a little extreme,
but as long as possible, a hundred years aspirationally.
And as I said, we want to be durable,
we want to be trustworthy,
we want you to understand that our core motivation
is to create open source software
and make it incredible and easy to use
and let people use code to do data science
and make it all open,
and that's kind of our bottom line.
So we've begun recently,
actually probably starting about three years ago,
to work on a lot more Python open source projects.
So Quarto we heard all about today.
There's a separate project called QuartoDoc
that helps with creating package documentation
for Python packages.
A bunch of packages are using it now.
Ibis just switched over to using QuartoDoc.
We've also got Shiny, which you heard about today.
So Shiny works inside Quarto,
but also kind of works Quarto standalone.
And we have some other packages
you may not have heard of.
Betamer for kind of model ops,
Suba is a data manipulation library,
and Plot9 is a data viz library.
So we've got lots of projects,
we've got a lot of investment in these projects,
and we'll have more projects over time.
We're also very much involved with NumFocus,
and we're working closely with the Jupyter community
on some standards for scientific notebook publishing
in an effort called NotebooksNow.
So we're doing a lot with Python,
we're going to do a lot more in the future,
and we invite all of you to help us figure out
what the right tools are,
what the right path is,
what things should work well together,
and I'm really excited to get going on this.
So if you want to learn more about what I showed you today,
it's important to note that this dashboard feature
is in the pre-release of Quarto.
It is not in the main 1.3,
which is our current production release.
It's in the pre-release.
So if you go to the docs on dashboards,
it's going to say this over and over again,
like, don't remember, get the pre-release.
But this is just another reminder,
you can go directly to it,
get repo,
here's ways to get more info about Quarto itself,
and dashboards, a little more about Shiny,
and then if you want these slides,
that's the URL for the slides.
With that, I'd love to answer any questions people have.
Thank you.
You mentioned this in your previous talk,
about collaboration,
but what's the relationship with, like,
this, and certifying there's a difference in tags,
and hopefully it sees some consolidation.
Yeah, yes.
So the question is,
there's another project that's similar to Quarto
called MistJS,
and we are working with them
on the notebooks now.
One of the ideas was that
we recognize that there's not going to just be
one markdown system for Jupyter for all time,
so we didn't want to make
the standard for scientific publications
as one open source project.
So we worked with them to create
an intermediate format
that basically multiple projects can target,
and so by the time you get to that format,
there are no vestiges of Quarto or Mist.
So that was an effort to just make sure
that the standard was beyond any given project.
And Mist is a similar project.
I'd say they're a little more focused
on scientific manuscripts
and websites.
They're not quite as broad
in the different things they're going after.
They do have a little different syntax.
We're actually working with them to try to,
like, can we get the citation syntax to be the same?
Can we get the div syntax to be the same?
But they do have different lineages,
and so they're not identical.
Any other questions?
Thank you for the presentation.
That was awesome.
The PyEdit version
that we have with PyScripts,
is the dashboard limited
to what package libraries
are available,
or does Quarto overcome that need?
No, it's whatever works in PyEdit.
And so you have to test it.
So we have, you sort of export it
to a webpage, and then you kind of load it up
in your browser and say,
did all the libraries work?
Yes, over there.
Can you say a little bit more
about the Notebooks Now?
Yeah.
So if you Google for Notebooks Now,
you'll find a project page for it.
But if you want to find out
the specific stuff
that we've done for it,
if you Google for Quarto Manuscripts,
that's kind of the feature that we have
that integrates with Notebooks Now.
Googling is pulling up an AGU?
Yeah, so that's Notebooks Now,
that's AGU, that's what it is.
But if you want to, I don't know how,
that website is not super live.
So if you want to find the more specific stuff,
if you just Google
Quarto Manuscripts,
or you could Google
Mist, Notebooks Now,
and then you'd find the specific...
Yeah.
The AGU has, there's a GitHub organization
for it, I forget what the URL is, but...
We'll take one more question.
This will be final,
I'd say,
by pretty solidly
by the 1st of February.
There's some things we need,
there's some reasons we have
to make sure it ships by about that time.
So it's, you know,
a lot of people run the pre-release,
I wouldn't discourage you at all
from using it, it's quite solid,
but the final release will probably
be more like early February.
And really not late.
Great.
Perfect. Thank you, Jacob,
for such an awesome presentation.
Thank you.